# Basic Networking Terms

- [Basic Networking Terms](#basic-networking-terms)
  - [NIC](#nic)
  - [Computer Network](#computer-network)
  - [Network Protocol](#network-protocol)
  - [Home Network](#home-network)
  - [SOHO](#soho)
  - [Ping](#ping)
  - [tracesert](#tracesert)
  - [IP address](#ip-address)
  - [Network Components](#network-components)
  - [DNS](#dns)

## NIC

* Network Interface Card
* Computer hardware component that connects computer to network
* There are more wireless NIC now.
* They allow connection to internet

## Computer Network

* Connecting 2 devices through NIC and a medium that share data

## Network Protocol

* Rules that devices follow to communicate with each other
* For example, 2 people can speak to each other only if they speak the same language

## Home Network

* Internet->Modem->Router->Devices
* **Routers** have the job of finding best path get data to destination based on some criteria.

## SOHO

* Small Office & Home Office
* In this, the router is connected to a switch.
* Switch gives mutiple ports devices can connect to.
* Router usually comes with switch nowdays.

## Ping

* A program to check connnectivity to a remote server

## tracesert

* A windows program to check the devices that it hops across to reach the remote server.

## IP address

* It is a numerical address given to all devices that use internet protocol for communication.
* DHCP (Dynamic Host Configurationn Protocol) allow devices to get an IP address as they join the network.

## Network Components

* Two main components: **physical**, **logical**
* Physical: here we physically connect devices.Ex: wires, fiber, air, etc.
* Logical: This dicusses how data actually tranferred from one device to another.
* Various protocols used to do this, like IP.

## DNS

* Domain Name System
* It converts the domain name to IP address.
* google.com -> 179.29.49.36
* It helps in remembering the websites rather than IP address
* When connecting to internet, you will be automatically allocated to a DNS server.
